BASIC CSS TIPS

To pad an element, you can use clockwise direction of of padding {padding-top, padding-right, padding-bottom, and padding-left }, same with margin.
Font-size and Font-family properties are used to set the specified size and family of a font.
To import a Google Font, you can copy the font's URL from the Google Fonts library and then paste it in your HTML
To style your html document, you add a style block to the top of the document 
<style>
</style> 
The style block contains all the css selectors you’d want to use to style your document, then you apply the class to your html tags

The text-transform property is used to change the appearance of text. It's a convenient way to make sure text on a webpage appears consistently, without having to change the text content of the actual HTML elements.
lowercase	"transform me"
uppercase	"TRANSFORM ME"
capitalize	"Transform Me"
initial	Use the default value
inherit	Use the text-transform value from the parent element
none	Default: Use the original text






CSS borders have properties like style, color and width.

For example, if we wanted to create a red, 5 pixel border around an HTML element, we could use this class:

<style>
  .thin-red-border {
    border-color: red;
    border-width: 5px;
    border-style: solid;
  }
</style>

We can add rounded borders to a shape or image using the border-radius class
Width and height are used to size images, shapes and are measured in px(pixels) or em
Three important properties control the space that surrounds each HTML element: padding, border, and margin.

An element's padding controls the amount of space between the element's content and its border
Three important properties control the space that surrounds each HTML element: padding, border, and margin.

margin controls the amount of space between an element's border and surrounding elements.
If you set an element's margin to a negative value, the element will grow larger.



You can override class style declaration in subsequent CSS
You can override class style declaration with ID attributes
You can override class style declaration with inline styling. 
You can override every other css style declaration by using !important on a particular class
Hexcodes and rgb() are used to specify colors in css
:Hover attribute is used to specify what you want when the mouse hovers on a particular element
Always end your css classes with a semicolon ;
@keyframes is used to animate a shape or text in css
hsl() is used to set the hue, saturation and lightness of a color. Hue is from 0 to 360, saturation is from 0% to 100% and lightness is from 0% to 100%
Z-index tag is used to overlap elements
Animation-timing-function are used to specify how animation plays out with respect to the duration set. You can use keywords like linear, ease-in, ease-out to specify it or you can used cubic-bezier curves to do so. 
The Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) recommend at least a 4.5 to 1 contrast ratio for normal text.
Media Queries are a new technique introduced in CSS3 that change the presentation of content based on different viewport sizes, it is specified as @media (max-width: 100px). The viewport is a user's visible area of a web page, and is different depending on the device used to access the site.
The four different viewport units are:

vw (viewport width): 10vw would be 10% of the viewport's width.
vh (viewport height): 3vh would be 3% of the viewport's height.
vmin (viewport minimum): 70vmin would be 70% of the viewport's smaller dimension (height or width).
vmax (viewport maximum): 100vmax would be 100% of the viewport's bigger dimension (height or width).

CSS has a number of different length unit options that you can use.
The two main types of length units are absolute and relative. Absolute units tie to physical units of length. For example, in and mm refer to inches and millimeters, respectively. Absolute length units approximate the actual measurement on a screen, but there are some differences depending on a screen's resolution.

Relative units, such as em or rem, are relative to another length value. For example, em is based on the size of an element's font. If you use it to set the font-size property itself, it's relative to the parent's font-size.

CSS has several options for how to align text with the text-align property.

text-align: justify; causes all lines of text except the last line to meet the left and right edges of the line box.

text-align: center; centers the text

text-align: right; right-aligns the text

 text-align: left; (the default) left-aligns the text.

Line-height property helps to change the height of each line in a block of text. As the name suggests, it changes the amount of vertical space that each line of text gets.

To create a CSS variable, you just need to give it a name with two hyphens in front of it and assign it a value like this:

--penguin-skin: gray;
This will create a variable named --penguin-skin and assign it the value of gray. Now you can use that variable elsewhere in your CSS to change the value of other elements to gray.
After you create your variable, you can assign its value to other CSS properties by referencing the name you gave it.

background: var(--penguin-skin);

When you create your variables in :root they will set the value of that variable for the whole page.

You can then overwrite these variables by setting them again within a specific element.

NB: to make an image responsive, set the height to auto.

The box-shadow property applies one or more shadows to an element.

The box-shadow property takes values for

offset-x (how far to push the shadow horizontally from the element),
offset-y (how far to push the shadow vertically from the element),
blur-radius,
spread-radius and
color, in that order.
The blur-radius and spread-radius values are optional.

Multiple box-shadows can be created by using commas to separate properties of each box-shadow element.

Here's an example of the CSS to create multiple shadows with some blur, at mostly-transparent black colors:

box-shadow: 0 10px 20px rgba(0,0,0,0.19), 0 6px 6px rgba(0,0,0,0.23);

